Beacon Command Behaviour
Beacon is Cobalt Strike s post-exploitation agent and therefore provides lots of different commands to the operator.  The aim of this lesson is to provide an overview of the different command  classes  and provide some insight into how they work under-the-hood.  This is crucial for understanding the OPSEC considerations for each.

House-keeping commands
These commands generally exist to set a configuration option Beacon or perform other house-keeping tasks.  Common ones include:

help displays command help text.
checkin instructs Beacon to send its metadata.
sleep changes Beacon s sleep interval and jitter  .
clear clears the current Beacon console.
downloads shows downloads in progress.
cancel stops a download.
jobs shows running post-exploitation jobs.
note sets a custom note about the current Beacon.
powershell-import imports a PowerShell script into Beacon.
ppid sets the parent PID for fork & run commands.
spawnto changes the sacrificial process for fork & run commands.
Some of them  checkin, sleep, cancel, powershell-import, spawnto, and ppid  work by sending a task to Beacon to carry out; whilst others  help, clear, downloads, jobs, and note  do not, and are handled client-side instead.

API-only commands
These commands are built into Beacon and only rely on native Windows APIs to function.  Common ones include:
pwd prints Beacon s current working directory.
cd changes Beacon s current working directory.
download transfers a file from the target to the team server.
upload transfers a file from the attacker s machine to the target.
ls list files and directories.
getuid gets the username of the current user.
make_token creates and impersonates an access token.
steal_token duplicates and impersonates an access token from another process.
rev2self drops token impersonation.
kill terminates a target process.
exit instructs Beacon to terminate.
Inline commands
These commands are implemented as Beacon Object Files  BOFs , which are compiled C programs that execute within the Beacon session.  The BOF and command arguments are sent down to the Beacon inside the tasking data.  Once a BOF has finished executing, it is cleared from memory.  Common commands that are implemented as BOFs include:

clipboard monitors a user s clipboard content.
getsystem elevates the Beacon session to SYSTEM privileges.
jump psexec is a lateral movement technique.
kerberos_ticket_use imports a Kerberos ticket into the Beacon session.
reg queries the registry.
runasadmin uac-cmstplua is a UAC bypass technique.
Because BOFs are external programs, they are one of the most popular means of bringing custom commands into Beacon.  Trusted Sec s Situational Awareness BOF is an excellent example.

OPSEC considerations
The way BOFs are loaded into  and cleared from  memory is controlled with the process-inject block in a Malleable C2 profile.
process-inject

BOFs are executed by Beacon s main thread - so there are no OPSEC considerations for new thread creations.
Fork & run commands
Many of Beacon s post-exploitation features are implemented as Windows DLLs.  To execute these DLLs, they are appended to a loader  much like Beacon is  to produce a shellcode package, which is then injected into a target process.  Output is provided to Beacon over an SMB named pipe.  There are two sub-categories to this pattern, called  explicit  and  spawn .

Explicit injects the post-ex capability into a target process that already exists.
Spawn starts a new process and injects the post-ex capability into it.
Some fork & run commands support both variants, while some only support one or the other.
Spawn only
execute-assembly runs a .NET  Framework  assembly in memory.
powerpick runs PowerShell via an unmanaged runspace.
Explicit only
psinject is same functionality as powerpick.
Both
portscan scans open ports and fingerprints services on the network.
keylogger logs the keystrokes within the desktop session it s injected into.
printscreen takes a screenshot of the desktop session it s injected into.
desktop injects a full VNC session.
mimikatz requires no explanation 🙂
OPSEC considerations
These commands carry the heaviest OPSEC burden because they must inject shellcode, start a new thread, and start a new named pipe.  The spawn variant must also start a new sacrificial process.  As with BOFs, Malleable C2 s process-inject block can influence how the shellcode is injected.

process-inject

The post-ex block can be used to control other elements of fork & run, as well as modify the post-ex DLLs themselves.
post-ex

Process execution commands
There are several commands that are used to run an arbitrary program on disk.  These include:
execute runs a program without returning output.
run executes a program but does return output.
runas executes a program using alternate credentials.
runu is like run but attempts to spoof its parent PID.
shell passes the provided arguments via cmd .
powershell passes the provided arguments via powershell .  Other commands also rely on this, including jump winrm and remote-exec winrm.
Service creations
The following Beacon commands create a service  either on the current machine or a remote one  to run a command or Beacon.

elevate svc-exe is used to elevate from high-integrity to SYSTEM privileges.
jump psexec, psexec64, & psexec_psh are lateral movement techniques.
remote-exec psexec runs an arbitrary command.
OPSEC considerations
The service binary payload will always use rundll32 as its default spawnto.  The post-ex.spawnto directive in Malleable C2 cannot be used here because environment variables, such as win dir , are not valid in a SYSTEM context.  The artifact kit provides a command called ak-settings, which allows you to set the spawnto to an explicit path instead.
