Beacon Memory
Each of the payload artifacts, whether it s the .exe, .dll, or .ps1, all do the same thing.  They inject Beacon shellcode, which is a loader + DLL package.  The loader settles the DLL into memory, resolves imports, processes relocations, and then calls the DLL s entry point.  After that, Beacon is happily running in memory.

However, many anti-virus products have memory scanning capabilities, which can lead to the detection of Beacon after it has been loaded into memory.  The following is an example screenshot from Defender, where the  sms  postfix indicates it was identified by a memory scan.


Memory scans can be performed as a matter of routine, or they can be triggered by suspicious activity  such as the creation of new threads, process spawns, etc .

RWX Memory
By default, Beacon s prepended loader will allocate memory for Beacon in a single PAGE_EXECUTE_READWRITE  RWX  region.  Most native applications do not use RWX memory, with the exception of  dynamic  ones like PowerShell and .NET programs, so the presence of RWX memory can be a red flag. 


By setting stage.userwx to false in Malleable C2, the prepended loader changes its behaviour by:
Allocating memory with PAGE READWRITE  RW  permissions
Copying Beacon into that memory
Then looping over each DLL section and setting the final memory permissions according to those section characteristics.  That s typically RX for .text, R for .rdata, and RW for .data.


DLL Headers
When the prepended loader loads Beacon into memory, it also includes Beacon s PE headers by default.  This means that all the headers, including the DOS and NT Headers are loaded into memory.  These headers are only required to load the PE sections into memory, but they re not required during runtime, and the presence of these headers makes it more obvious that a PE is running in this memory region.


Setting stage copy header to false will prevent the prepended loader from copying those headers, which will leave only the .text and .data sections in memory.


Module Stomping
If you review RX memory regions in a process, i.e. memory regions associated with the .text section of a loaded PE, you will generally find that they are all backed by a module on disk, because that s where they were loaded from.  System Informer display these modules under the  use  column.

However, the Beacon PE does not appear to be backed by a module on disk because it was loaded from memory.  This is another anomaly that can stand out.


The stage.module  option in Malleable C2 tells Beacon s prepended loader to perform a technique known as module stomping  or module overloading .  This is a where the loader maps the specified PE from disk, but then overwrite it s memory with Beacon later.  The end result is Beacon s PE appearing to be backed by a legitimate module.

Note that the module you choose must be large enough to accommodate Beacon.  My recommendation would be to look through System32 and pick one that s at least 512KB.  For example, set module_x64  Hydrogen.dll ; will have Beacon mapped over dll.

Most of the original PE will remain, and Beacon will be mapped somewhere over the various sections.
Strings
Hardcoded strings in the PE s .rdata section are a common culprit for memory-based detections, but can sometimes include parts of the .text section as well.  To get an idea of what strings are in the DLL, we need to export a copy of it.  Unfortunately, there isn t a way that s built into the client that allows us to export the raw Beacon DLL before any obfuscations are applied to it, combined with the loader, and output as shellcode.

The workaround is to get it out using a bit of Aggressor.  There are a few ways to slice that, but I think the easiest is via the BEACON RDLL GENERATE hook.  This hook exists as a means of replacing the default loader with a custom one, so it s provided with the raw DLL for the custom loader to be append to.


beacon.cna

The BEACON_RDLL_GENERATE hook is provided with the raw Beacon DLL as variable $2.  The above script simply writes that content to disk.  The artifact_payload function is used to generate a payload, which we re calling just to trigger the hook to fire.  We don t have the final payload anywhere, as it s not required.

Loading this script into the Cobalt Strike client should output beacon_raw.x64.dll to the target directory.  
Then, simply use the strings command in WSL to dump a list of strings present within that file.

The majority of string literals that you ll find are format strings related to Beacon output.  Such as

For example, line 2 is used to format date and time output for the ls command, and line 11 is used to format output for the getuid command when run in high-integrity.  The more experience you have with Cobalt Strike, the more of these formats you re likely to recognise.

The Malleable C2 profile can be used to replace these strings in the Beacon DLL, via the stage.transform-x64 and stage.transform-x86 blocks  I will just show x64, but the same can be applied to x86 .  The strrep command simply replaces one string with another.  To replace raw bytes, use the   syntax.


However, there are two caveats that you need to consider:
The new string must be shorter or of equal length than the original.  It cannot be longer.
The format string itself should be kept valid  
 
Unfortunately, there isn t a known method of forcing a file through a memory scan, like ThreatCheck can do for on-disk and AMSI scans.  So trial and error is the only approach here.

There s also a huge trap that you must not fall into.  You will also see strings like the following, which are related to Beacon s internal webserver:


This is used quite extensively with different Beacon workflows.  One such workflow is with the powershell-import and powershell/powerpick/psinject commands.  This will make more sense later in the course when we cover post-exploitation, but I will give a short summary here.  powershell-import is used to  import  a 3rd party PowerShell script into Beacon, which can then be executed via the powershell, powerpick, and psinject commands.  The way this works under the hood is that Beacon hosts that imported script on a tiny internal web server, using a random port.  The command which is passed to PowerShell  transparently to the user ,  downloads  that script, imports it into the PowerShell runspace, and then runs the cmdlet that was provided by the user.

I mention all this because I ve seen many people replace strings like  
 , which makes the HTTP responses returned by Beacon completely non-compliant with the HTTP standard.  This subsequently causes PowerShell  and other post-exploitation workflows that rely on the internal web server  to completely break.  Consider this your friendly warning, and always consider what impact your changes might have to the overall ecosystem.



