Downloading Files
Files can be downloaded from a target using the download command.  The command syntax is download  file , where  file  can be an absolute or relative path.

Files can also be downloaded from the file browser by right-clicking and selecting Download.

The file content is transferred to the team server over the C2 channel   the same way job output is sent from Beacon  .  The speed at which a file can be downloaded is therefore dependant on the protocol used by the egress Beacon talking to the team server and Beacon s sleep time.  For example, a file will take much longer to download through a DNS Beacon using A records than an HTTP Beacon using POST requests.

To see downloads that are still in progress, run the downloads command.  This will show a summary of running downloads, their total size, and the amount of data received to date.  A download that is in progress can be terminated with the cancel command.

Because files are downloaded to the team server first, they will not appear on the machine running the Cobalt Strike client. To do that, go to View   Downloads.


From here, select the desired file  s   and click Sync Files.  This will open a dialogue box which allows you to save the file to your local disk.  Files may also be removed from the team server using the Delete Files button.  Every operator connected to the team server can see   and delete   any of the files that have been downloaded.

Processes

List running processes with the ps command.  The information returned includes the ID of the process   PID  , the PID of its parent process, the process architecture   x64 or x86  , the session ID, and the user running it.  The output is primarily ordered by PID and then by the PIDs of its children.  For instance, this output shows that registry   88  , smss.exe   388  , and Memory Compression   2052   are all children of System   4  .
                               
You will not be able to read the arch, session, or user information of processes other than your own, unless your Beacon is running in high-integrity.  This is covered in the Privilege Escalation chapter.

Process Browser
Like the file browser, Cobalt Strike has a process browser, which can be accessed using the process_browser command or Explore    Process List.

Keylogger
The Cobalt Strike keylogger will log the key presses made by the user who owns the process the post-ex capability is injected into.

Inject a keystroke logger into the specified process.
​
Use keylogger with no arguments to spawn a temporary process and inject the 
keystroke logger into it.
​
To terminate this task: use jobs to find the job ID. Use job kill to kill it.
The output is not sent to the Beacon console, but a dedicated tab that can be accessed via View > Keystrokes.


You can right-click on a row and select Save to sync the output to a text file on your local computer, or select Delete to remove it altogether.

The keylogger runs as a long-term job, which can be seen with the jobs command and stopped with the jobkill command.

