Executing Custom Tools
There are countless commercial and open source tooling that are useful to leverage during an engagement. Some notable examples include Seatbelt for local reconnaissance, PowerView for domain reconnaissance, Certipy & Certify for ADCS abuse, Rubeus for Kerberos abuse, and Impacket for lateral movement, credential dumping & relaying.  Some tools will need to be executed directly on a target and some can operate over a network.  This lesson will focus on the former.  See the Pivoting chapter for the latter.

Beacon provides means to execute PowerShell scripts, .NET assemblies, and reflective DLLs, all in-memory to give as much flexibility as possible to the operator.

powershell
There are three ways to execute PowerShell in Beacon. The first is with the powershell command.
​
Execute the command using powershell. Any cmdlets from the
last use of powershell-import are available here too.
This uses powershell.exe which makes it roughly equivalent to the shell command  which uses cmd.exe .

The cmdlet and arguments that you specify are converted into an encoded command before execution.  So the command above is actually executed as: powershell  Operators can modify this behaviour using hooks in Aggressor script.

powerpick
​
Execute the command using Unmanaged PowerShell. Any cmdlets from the
last use of powershell-import are available here too.
This command uses an instance of unmanaged PowerShell, which taps into the underlying PowerShell APIs without relying on powershell.exe.  This is based on Lee Christensen s UnmanagedPowerShell project.  This is a fork and run command which starts Beacon s spawnto process, injects the unmanaged PowerShell DLL into it, and reads the output over a named pipe.

psinject

This works in the same way as powerpick, but allows operators to inject the unmanaged DLL into an existing process rather than spawning a new one.  This can be useful for running PowerShell scripts in the context of another user, assuming you have the privileges to inject into their processes.


Importing PowerShell Scripts
To execute external PowerShell scripts, they must first be imported using the powershell-import command.

​
Import a powershell script which is combined with future
calls to the powershell command. You may only use one
imported script at a time.
For example, to import PowerView, we would do:
beacon  powershell-import C:\Tools\PowerSploit\Recon\PowerView.ps1
This is the local path on the machine running the Cobalt Strike client, not the target the Beacon is running on.
The content of the imported script is automatically imported into the PowerShell session when running powershell, powerpick, and psinject.  Beacon does this by hosting the script on a small built-in webserver, which is then fetched and imported during execution.

beacon  powerpick Get-Domain
​
Beacon can only hold one imported script at a time.
The execute-assembly command uses a reflective DLL to load and host the CLR  Command Language Runtime , and then executes a .NET assembly from memory.  Only .NET Framework assemblies are supported  i.e. no .NET/.NET Core .

Executes a local .NET process assembly on target. This command loads the CLR in a temporary
process and loads the assembly into it. If the assembly is in the data store, this command will
use the loaded item automatically. For more information  help data-store .
​

BOFs
BOFs are tiny object files that can be loaded and executed by Beacon and can be executed using the inline-execute command.

Run a Beacon Object File in this Beacon session. A Beacon Object File is a 
C program, compiled as an object file, written to use conventions specified 
in the Cobalt Strike documentation. If the Beacon Object File is in the data
store, this command will use the loaded item automatically. For more
information  help data-store .
However, it s more common for BOF tooling to be wrapped in their own command aliases.  For example, TrustedSec s Situational Awareness BOF project contains multiple BOFs that are exposed via custom commands via the included Aggressor script.

For example, its ipconfig command acts as a replacement for running shell ipconfig.

Under the hood, the Aggressor script is running beacon inline 
