Path Interception
Path interception is a class of vulnerability that occurs when an adversary is able to drop an executable into a location where it will get executed before the intended one.  There are a few ways in which this can manifest, which are described below.

PATH Environment Variable
The PATH environment variable contains a list of directories from which common programs are run.  For example, if you use net in a script or on the command line,  net.exe is what gets executed.  Windows does not know where net.exe exists ahead of time, so it searches through each directory in the PATH to find it.

Each environment variable, including PATH, can be seen using the env command.

This variable is constructed from two locations:

User
These entries are read from the Environment registry key.  Each user on the computer can have a different path variable, which they are free to modify.

Machine
These entries are read from the  Environment registry key.  Standard users cannot modify this.

The PATH variable for user processes is a concatenation of the Machine + User paths, whereas system processes just use the Machine paths.  Path interception by the PATH variable   occurs when additional directories get added to the machine's variable that are also writable by standard users.

Software installers commonly add their own paths before the default ones.

This is particularly troublesome when the software is installed in the system root  C drive , because directories created here are writeable by standard users by default.  The permissions of a file or directory can be read using the cacls command.

From this, we can see that Authenticated Users can write into Scripts.

Now, consider the following C# code, which simply calls cmd timeout.

The timeout executable exists on disk at  timeout.exe, which Windows must search the PATH environment variable to find.  This can therefore be exploited by dropping a binary called timeout.exe into the  Scripts directory, because it will be searched before System32.

Dropping a malicious binary as cmd.exe in the same path will not work in this scenario  even though it's called with a relative path , which is explained in more detail below.

Search Order Hijacking
As demonstrated above, when a program is run from a script or command line using a relative path, Windows must search the PATH environment variable to find it.  This can lead to hijacking opportunities if the PATH contains directories that proceed System32 and other core directories, that are also writable by standard users.

The note hints that cmd.exe cannot be executed in this case, which is because the underlying APIs used to run processes can follow different search orders  of which the PATH variable is just a small part .  Path interception by search order hijacking  T1574.008  occurs when an attacker can hijack this search order.
The behaviour of the calling application depends on which API and parameters are used to execute the target program.  The WinExec API follows a similar search order to that of DLLs, which is:

The executing directory.
The current working directory.
The System32 directory.
The 16-bit System directory.
The Windows directory.
Directories in the PATH environment variable.
The CreateProcess API can vary.  If lpApplicationName is provided, then it will only search the current working directory.  By default, all services start with their current working directory set to, which is why cmd.exe could not be hijacked using the PATH variable above.  If lpApplicationName is not provided and lpCommandLine is, then it will follow the above search order.  The Process class in .NET will call either ShellExecuteEx or CreateProcess depending on which parameters are passed to it.  ShellExecuteEx assumes the current working directory if a partial path is provided.

Hijacking cmd.exe would be possible if an adversary has write access to a directory that proceeds the legitimate one in the search order.  The only directory that proceeds the binary's current working directory and System32 is its executing directory, i.e. the directory the binary is located in, which in this example is Service Executable.

In this case, we can see that the directory the service binary is running from is writable  in fact, Authenticated Users has full control over it .

Unquoted Paths
CreateProcess exhibits more interesting behaviour when the lpCommandLine parameter contains spaces and not encapsulated by a set of quotations, as it does not follow the search order but instead tries to interpret the path based on whitespaces.  For example,  \Bad Program.exe would be interpreted as:

Path interception by unquoted path   can be exploited if an adversary can write a malicious program in one of these interpreted paths that occurs before the legitimate path.  A common scenario where this can be abused is when a service is configured to run a binary, but the path to that binary both has spaces and is unquoted.

This output of sc_enum shows that BadWindowsService is configured with an unquoted path.

This can be exploited if they can write to a location within the path where it will be interpreted differently, such as  Bad.exe 

When abusing services, the dedicated svc.exe payloads must be used.

beacon  cacls 
A service runs its binary when it starts, so a service must be stopped and restarted to execute the malicious binary after it has been dropped to disk.  It may be the case that the adversary does not have permissions to do this, and therefore must wait until the computer restarts.  If they do have permissions, the sc_stop and sc_start commands can be used.
