Resource Kit
The other type of stage0 template that Cobalt Strike provides are for script-based payloads, such as PowerShell.  Where the artifact kit is used to modify the compiled templates, the resource kit is used to modify the script templates.  AMSI is the primary concern when it comes to PowerShell because it can detect scripts running in memory.

Anti-Malware Scan Interface
The Windows Antimalware Scan Interface  AMSI  is a standard that allows applications and services to integrate with the anti-virus product on a machine.  AMSI is vendor-agnostic, which means any 3rd party anti-virus product can register itself on installation as an AMSI provider - it is not specific to Defender.  Any 3rd party developer can also submit scan requests from their applications, e.g. to scan untrusted user input, which can be done by loading amsi.dll into the process or interacting with the COM layer.

The following diagram illustrates how the AMSI architecture ties together.



Native Windows components that are  AMSI aware  include:
User Account Control  elevation of EXE, COM, MSI, and ActiveX 
PowerShell  scripts, interactive use, and dynamic code evaluation 
Windows Script Host  wscript.exe and cscript.exe 
JavaScript and VBScript
Office VBA macros
One point of clarification is that AMSI is merely a vehicle by which data can be submitted to an anti-virus for analysis.  It s the anti-virus product that determines whether or not that data is malicious, not AMSI itself.

There are lots of ways to bypass AMSI, which typically revolve around disrupting this  bridge  between an application and the anti-virus engine.  These leverage techniques such as memory patching or hardware breakpoints to either prevent AMSI from being initialised properly, or by preventing it from submitting samples and returning a fake  no threat  response to the application.

However, many of these bypasses are detected themselves, or otherwise leave indicators behind that can be found by a blue team.  It s therefore my recommendation to approach your PowerShell scripts in the same way as you do the artifacts - which is to identify and change parts of the code that the anti-virus detects as malicious.

Let s begin by building a new set of resources, without changing anything. The build script for the resource kit only requires an output directory.


This template is used to generate 64-bit stageless PowerShell payloads for workflows such as jump winrm64.  Scanning it with ThreatCheck s AMSI engine shows that it gets detected even without weaponised shellcode being patched into it.


These files are significantly easier to analyse for us because they re just text, so we can open them in a tool, such as PowerShell ISE or VSCode, and find the offending portion s  manually.  To bypass the detections, we can do things like renaming functions and variables, refactoring to break it down into multiple sub-steps, or using classical PowerShell obfuscation techniques.  My suggestion is to start with the simple ones  saving the changes and re-scanning with ThreatCheck as you go  and move up to move complex changes if needed.

ThreatCheck s output above seems to suggest the offending code is this part of line 5:
  System.dll  
String concatenation is an easy thing to play with, so let s change it to:
  Syst + em.dll  
Now when we save and re-scan the file, we get a completely different result

This tells us that Defender has multiple signatures that target this file, but we have successfully bypassed the first one.
This next detection seems to be alerting on line 32, which is where the .NET Marshal.Copy method is being called to copy the Beacon shellcode into memory.


We can remove this altogether and replace it with a call to the native WriteProcessMemory API.

As with the artifact kit, we need to load resources.cna into the client before these new resources will be used.


This script is used in several places, including hosting a PowerShell payload via Cobalt Strike s Scripted Web Delivery attack.  It will take template.[x64/x86].ps1  depending on the payload architecture , GZIP compresses and base64 encodes it, then patches it into compress.ps1.


However, if we host a payload using the scripted web delivery and try to execute it, then it will be detected.


In these instances, simple trial and error is a reasonable approach.  One possible method by using old-fashioned obfuscation.  First, import Daniel Bohannon s Invoke-Obfuscation script.


Invoke Obfuscation 
Set the script block to be that of compress.ps1 s content.

Then we can apply any of the obfuscations that we desire.  The only part we can t really change is the data placeholder, because Cobalt Strike relies on this to patch the shellcode into the correct spot of the script.  You can technically change the placeholder string if you do it here and in the Aggressor script, but I ve never seen a detection trigger on this string alone.

Using token obfuscations, I ended up with the following

Simply overwrite the content in compress.ps1, save the changes, then host and test a new payload.