Software Vulnerabilities
Software applications may also be exploitable via traditional vulnerabilities such as buffer overflows, format strings, directory traversal, SQL or command injection, and deserialisation of untrusted data.  When such software is running in an elevated context, exploitation from a user context may result in an elevation of privilege.

The following example code reads in a binary file from an untrusted location, data.bin and uses a BinaryFormatter to deserialise the data.  An adversary can exploit this if they can write a malicious binary blob to this location, which when deserialised, will execute their malicious code.

ysoserial.net is an amazing tool for creating .NET gadgets for this purpose although the number of options is overwhelming.  In the example below, I'm using the TypeConfuseDelegate gadget with the BinaryFormatter formatter, to run a PowerShell one-liner.  I output the data in raw format and write it to

Simply upload the file to the target and wait for our DNS Beacon to check-in.

User Account Control

Windows provides a mechanism called Mandatory Integrity Control  MIC  that helps control access to securable objects, such as processes and files.  There are four main integrity levels, creatively called low, medium, high, and system.  A security principal cannot modify an object that is assigned with a higher integrity level than their own.

A user, even one that is in the local administrators group on a computer, is only provided with a medium integrity level by default.  You can see this casually by running whoami  groups in a command prompt.


From the image above, we can see that the user is a member of the local administrators group but the instance of cmd.exe is only running in a medium-integrity level.  This causes the system-level action of adding a new local user to fail with an access denied error.

User Account Control  UAC  is a defence-in-depth feature of Windows that acts as a gatekeeper to MIC.  To perform an administrative action such as the one above, an administrator user must specifically request to launch cmd.exe in an elevated context  i.e. with a high-integrity level .  UAC provides a prompt for consent or prompt for credentials that the user must accept.

The new instance of cmd.exe will then be running with a high integrity level and the administrative action is permitted.


UAC is designed to prevent malware running under the context of an administrative user from silently reading or modifying the system.  However, there are techniques   by which it can be bypassed.

Elevators & Exploits
Cobalt Strike provides two built-in primitives for executing code in a high-integrity context, which it calls 'elevators' and 'exploits'.  An elevator runs any arbitrary command  with arguments  via the runasadmin command.  An exploit spawns a new Beacon session via the elevate command.  There are some UAC bypasses already built into both commands and operators can even add their own via Aggressor.  The implementation of these can be anything that Beacon is capable of executing, including PowerShell, .NET, reflective DLL, and BOF.

elevate
The syntax for the elevate command is elevate   exploit    listener  and executing it by itself will show the available exploits.

The syntax for the runasadmin command is runasadmin   exploit    command    args  and executing it by itself will show the available elevators.

beacon> runasadmin
​
The flexibility of runasadmin means that you can execute any arbitrary command.
